# Project Reflections
- [Jason Henry](#jason-henry)
- [Justin Hurst](#justin-hurst)
- [Zaid Hussain](#zaid-hussain)

## Jason Henry
Overall, I got a lot out of this project and course. Before C346 I didn't have much experience with git and github; doing this project as a group made learning the git workflow a must which has made me more confident in using git. I also had never done any front-end stuff so learning how to create a dynamic UI was challenging but rewarding. I do wish I put more time in learning the react-spring library to make the animations I did more creative and cool, but overall I am happy with my work. After this project I have a better idea of why software architecture and design patterns are important, before I never thought about any of that but now I see why they are important to the overall design and structure of the software. After C346 I have a new motivation to put more projects on github, learn how to write better testable code, and learn how to incorporate design patterns in my code. I would say testing was my biggest struggle, testing a UI is a lot harder than it seemed. 
 
Throughout this project I helped with implementing data structure and algorithm components and testing; the two components I focused on were the Queue and Insertion Sort. The queue was fairly easy to implement but the insertion sort was another story. The way React handles state and changes in state brought some trouble when trying to show each swap of the algorithm. But Zaid was able to figure out a way to make state changes and have them render right away, which allowed me to use the same method in the insertion sort. Working with the group went really well and my partners were a big help along the way which was awesome. 

## Justin Hurst
I really enjoyed working on this project. I liked the idea behind it and found it interesting to take things we learned in previous data structures and algorithms classes and implement them in a web application. Before starting this, I knew how to use git but did not know much about branching or using git within a group. I feel like this assignment has improved my understanding and confidence with git. I knew some React going into this project but learned a lot along the way. Learning new tools like React Spring for animations and Jest with react testing library for testing has made me a better developer. 

My contributions to this project included setting up the initial home page and navigation, creating the linked list component, designing pictures for the home page, and helping with testing. Overall, I feel like our group worked great together and was able to accomplish a lot. If I had it to do over again, I think I might go about implementing this project by writing an API to handle all the logic for the data structures and algorithms. That way more complex algorithms would not have to be implemented entirely on the front-end. 

## Zaid Hussain
I have achieved great hands-on experience with this project. From knowing the very basics of HTML and CSS, I was able to learn and improve the web development technologies we used in our project. Although React was a very new and confusing library for us beginners, we were still able to accomplish mostly what we wanted, given the time constraints. Other than setting up the about page and few other things, I contributed in implementing the stack data structure and the recursion algorithm. The stack data structure was not difficult to implement. I used an array to store the stack values, and as the elements were added or removed, I used the useTransition hook to apply the animation to each element. The recursion algorithm was slightly more difficult, primarily because there was little user involvement from the user to power the animation. The major problem occurred when I naively used the setInterval method to apply duration between animation for each frame. Setting the state inside the interval did not work as the state was not being updated on the next iteration for the setInterval. I defined a custom hook to remember the latest callback function using the useRef hook, which allowed us to update the state each iteration. Something I was not able to contribute much to was testing. Jason and Justin handled the testing part very efficiently.

I intend to keep working on this project in my free time to improve the existing content or add new data structures and algorithms. This project has helped me not only to learn the technical skills, but also the skills needed to work with a group, execute tasks efficiently, and have fun while doing it. Jason and Justin were absolutely awesome teammates and made this a fun project.